Web Server for TreeTM models
============================

This repository contains a web server for processing the output of a topic model generated by [Interactive Topic Modeling](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~ynhu) software, and distributing the content over the internet. This API is intended to faciliate the development of multiple clients (e.g., browser-based interactive visualizations) that all work on the same topic model output.

This middleware is developed by [Jason Chuang](http://jason.chuang.ca), and distributed under the BSD-3 license.

API Format
----------

All API calls are in following format.

```
http:// [server] / [dataset] / [model] / [attribute]
```

The string `[server]` is base portion of the URL.  As multiple projects can be hosted on the same server, `[dataset]` uniquely identifies a project. A web-based visualization can access the content of a topic model by specifying the remaining URL `[model]/[attribute]`, such as `lda/TermTopicMatrix` and `treetm/TermTopicConstraints` to retrieve the term-topic matrix and send user-defined constraints to the server, respectively.

Using the software
------------------

Run the setup script to fetch all required libraries. This script only needs to be run once when Termite Web Server for MALLET is first downloaded onto a new machine.

```
bin/setup.sh
```

To launch the web server, execute the following command. A dialogue will appear. Click on "start server" to proceed.

```
bin/start_server.sh
```

Two demo scripts are included in this repository.

Executing the following command will download the 20newsgroups dataset (18828 documents), build a LDA topic model with 20 latent topics, and launch the web server.

```
./demo-20newsgroups.sh
```

Executing the following command will download the InfoVis dataset (449 documents with metadata), build both an LDA topic model and a TreeTM topic model, and launch the web server.

```
./demo-infovis.sh
```

The resulting topic model(s) will be available at:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8000/
```

License
-------

Copyright (c) 2014, University of Washington
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  * Neither the name of the <organization> nor the
    names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL <COPYRIGHT HOLDER> BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Credits
-------

Termite requires the use of the following libraries and tools.
We thank their respective authors for developing and distributing these tools.

  Interactive Topic Modeling  
  Paper website: http://www.cs.umd.edu/~ynhu  
  Developed by Yuening Hu, et al.  

  MALLET (MAchine Learning for LanguagE Toolkit)  
  Project website: http://mallet.cs.umass.edu  
  Developed by Andrew McCallum, et al.  

  The web2py Web Framework  
  Project website: http://web2py.com  
  Developed by Massimo Di Pierro, et al.  

  Font Awesome  
  Project website: http://fontawesome.io  
  Developed by Dave Gandy  
